[SWOOSH]
[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> I grew up in the country.
I had a brother
three years older,
and we played all day
every time we were free.
So it was wonderful, until
I was almost six years old,
and my brother and
I were in the house,
listening to Gene
Autry on the radio.
But there was an
interruption, and the voice
said that Pearl Harbor
had been bombed.
And I knew something
terrible had happened,
but I didn't understand what.
I asked questions about that.
What does that really mean, war?
But what I saw there
in the news of killing
was something that grew in
me for a very long time of,
what is this emptiness?
What is this kind of world that
the adults seem to be living?
And it was something that really
ultimately directed my life
and what I studied.
I had the deepest need
to try to understand,
was there really meaning
anywhere in the world,
or was this dreadful worldview
that our science had taught me,
that everything
is simply matter?
There is no meaning
and no purpose.
We're a fluke of nature,
an accident they just
happened to happen.
[LAUGHS] And when
we're dead, we're dead.
"You are dust, and to
dust you will return."
And I found limitations in both
religion and the science story,
so I had to sort of
trek out on my own
and see what my ancestors
had experienced.
Did they know something that
my culture, Western culture,
did not know or had forgotten?
We have to know how we got here.
>> My name is William Henry.
I'm an investigative
mythologist, author,
and researcher.
I've written 18 books on the
subject of ancient history
and mythology and especially
human transformation.
Today we are suffering
a global malaise.
We have especially
so many young people
that are literally depressed.
They're frustrated.
They're on the
verge of wondering,
how do we continue
in this world?
What is the purpose
of this existence?
And as we've been called,
we're a species with amnesia.
What have we forgotten?
Well, we have forgotten
our true spiritual nature.
And because of that,
we've also lost touch
with our true inner power.
>> I am not surprised in the
least that we have so much
mental illness and
so much addiction.
We do have all of these
things in the outer world
and the meaninglessness
of it all.
So the point of studying
ancient civilizations
is to discover
whether or not they
knew something that
we don't, something
that we're capable of, but
that we have forgotten.
These people had made
discoveries about nature
in their own bodies that we
couldn't even have imagined.
And they developed
techniques to open to that,
another dimension of reality.
Each of us dies to
our old self when
we take the journey to
discover the higher self.
>> My name is Rahelio.
I'm a spiritual guide in Sedona.
I consider myself an
American-born Toltec.
My ancestry comes out of Mexico.
So coming into Sedona, people
drive in and see these red rock
mountains.
Oh my god.
Wow.
It makes people open.
They're touched by the spirit.
The red rock country
has especially
been sacred to Native people.
In the rocks, you can see the
faces of the ancestor spirits.
Sedona is one of the major
power spots here on the planet.
And for the Native people, the
Mother Earth is their religion.
The Sky Father is
their religion.
The whole universe is alive.
And the Earth is a
living, sentient being.
She has an energy life system.
She has vital organs.
She has an acupuncture
meridian grid system.
You see that when you look
at the Native American dream
catcher with the spider web.
It is the acupuncture
of the Earth.
It's making a grid
all over the Earth.
And these power places
are acupuncture points.
And so as a living
Mother Earth, we're
mirroring the human being.
As above, so below.
And like in a
medicine wheel, you
have an eastern pole
and a western pole.
The east pole of the planet is
the world's highest and largest
plateau.
This is the plateau of Tibet.
So they have their
four sacred mountains.
The male plateau, the highest
pinnacle in the world,
is Mount Everest.
And then the west
pole of the planet,
the second largest plateau,
this is the Colorado plateau.
Colorado plateau,
the Indigenous people
have their four sacred
mountains here also.
There are shrines
in those mountains,
and they make pilgrimages there.
So their work is to hold
the balance of the planet.
And the Canyon is like the
womb, the womb of the mother.
The water is flowing.
So where is the largest
canyon in the world?
It is the Grand Canyon,
the Colorado River.
And so Mount Everest,
Grand Canyon, yin and yang.
These are two major
hubs of the world.
So Sedona is a part of this.
This is an emanation of
the Mother Earth's soul.
And quite often, we can
be in delayed evolution.
We can be stagnant.
So we make pilgrimages to these
places on the dream catcher
grid of the Mother Earth,
pilgrimages to these places
that will quicken the awakening.
And we as human
beings, we think we're
contained in our own little
minds and our brain here.
But when we step beyond the
box of our own consciousness
and open ourselves, we become
one with the whole planet.
We become one with the sky.
We are one.
We have the sky
wisdom within us,
and we have the Earth
wisdom within us.
So we come to these
power places to remember
who we are, that we are
connected to the greater.
>> There's quite a
science about that,
about places on the Earth where
the electromagnetic energy is
greater.
So temples were
built on these spots
to trigger these
potentials within us.
It existed in Egypt.
Egypt was very much a part
of that ancient culture,
or it was a recreation
of it, perhaps.
And in the High
Middle Ages in Europe
in the Renaissance of
these ancient traditions,
much of this information
just exploded into culture.
There were so many
cathedrals that
were built during that time.
And it's interesting that 22,
I think, of the cathedrals
did have a labyrinth
on the floor
that was a symbol of the journey
that we all take in life.
You have the question.
You enter the labyrinth, and
you walk around and around
and down until you come to the
center, which is the deepest
part of who we are.
At that spot, you confront the
divine, the universal mind,
the all, not as
other, but as self.
And that was the secret
of these cathedrals.
And of the cathedrals
in France, someone
pointed out that
they're really built
on the pattern of the star
constellation of Virgo.
>> Have you ever seen the
star constellation of Orion?
Researchers stumbled on the
idea that Orion, the three belt
stars were the Great Pyramid of
Egypt, the next large pyramid,
and the third small pyramid.
So they documented
and said, wow.
Orion is laid over Egypt.
Other researchers
here in the Southwest
have looked at this
Orion constellation.
The three belt stars of Orion
are the three Hopi Mesas.
These three belt stars
are also in Mexico.
Teotihuacan, the
City of the Gods.
And so Native
people here and also
other places around the world
put the stars on the Earth
with standing stones and
pyramids and other shrines.
>> A lot of people today are
talking about the concept
of ascension.
In many ancient
ascension stories,
we learn of a hero who
transforms and then ascends
or journeys to a
higher heavenly realm.
Call it Heaven.
Call it the Garden of Eden.
Call it whatever term you like.
The Buddhists call
it the Pure Land.
But part of the
idea of ascension
is that ascension
is also a quest
for wholeness while on Earth.
Numerous ancient
spiritual traditions,
including the Christian and
the Tibetan and the Egyptian,
tell us that within us
is this light being.
It's not something we go get.
It is something
that we already are.
And every experience
in our life is
designed to help us to uncover
this divine nature within,
as happened in the
story of Jesus.
It's also exemplified in the
story of the Tibetan guru
Padmasambhava.
And the idea is that
once we have connected
with that aspect of
ourselves, we now
are in possession of
true spiritual power,
true spiritual understanding.
>> And so the hidden tradition
that Jesus taught was
the ancient tradition of how
to go inward and experience
the Christ within.
That is, to experience cosmic
or Christ consciousness.
And the Nag Hammadi
texts were text
of those early
centuries in which Jesus
talked about going inward.
And they would have
been destroyed,
but the monks at Nag
Hammadi buried them,
and they weren't found
until after the war in 1945,
in the same way that the
Dead Sea Scrolls were only
found in 1945 as well.
We see Jesus saying, I
did not come to save you.
I came to remind
you of who you are.
You have forgotten that we
all come from the light.
And when you drink from my
mouth, you and I are one.
This was the hidden
tradition of Jesus.
He was someone who had
achieved that ability
to experience
cosmic consciousness
or universal mind, and he
wanted us to know that we all
have that ability too.
>> In its original form,
Christianity was not about
people becoming Christians.
It was about people activating
the Christ or the light within.
The Essenes referred
to themselves
as perfect light humans.
That word perfect
and perfection means
to become more whole,
more holy, more complete,
more compassionate.
Humans could
transform into angels.
The ancient Egyptians described
their god of resurrection,
Osiris, as the perfect one.
In Tibet, they
speak of dissolving
the body, the physical
flesh and blood
body, into five-colored
rainbow light,
or what they call the
rainbow light body.
The term that the Tibetans
use for this teaching
is the great perfection.
The Cathars of Southern
France maintain
that they were reincarnations
of the Essenes.
They refer to themselves as the
perfecti, or the perfect ones.
And this is something that
has been lost in church dogma.
Now my family wasn't
particularly religious.
We went to church on
Christmas and Easter.
There was a
wonderful school here
in Nashville called
Belmont College.
And because this college was
a Southern Baptist college,
one had to take
Bible study classes.
And our professor
assigned us to review
a book whose implications
would impact Christianity.
So off I go to the
local bookstore,
and there's a brand new
international bestseller
that's on the shelf.
The book is called
"Holy Blood Holy Grail."
20 years later, this
would be the book
that inspired Dan Brown to
write "The Da Vinci Code."
But back then, it was
very unknown material.
And this book had
caused a bombshell,
because its premise,
based on French history
and French legend, said that
the crucifixion of Jesus
was a hoax, that he
survived the crucifixion,
and that after the
crucifixion, Jesus and Mary
Magdalene and their
proposed family
moved to Southern France.
And they left their
most coveted secrets,
their cherished
secrets of original
or what they call primitive
Christianity in Southern
France.
>> My name's David Lorimer.
I'm speaking from the
Cathar region of France.
And the Cathars were a
group of people, a movement,
who regarded themselves
as the true Christians.
They tried to follow the
original teaching of Jesus.
They also believed in this
inner light and the inner life.
It was the great
heresy of the time.
And if the Roman Catholic
Church of the day
represented the
law and the letter,
then the Cathars represented the
spirit, and indeed the heart.
The Consolamentum was one of the
main sacraments of the Cathars.
And the whole point
was for people
to experience that they
essentially were immortal.
It went back, I think,
to an early transmission
of Christianity with
the legend or history
that Mary Magdalene
came to this area
and preached in Languedoc
for 20 or so years.
This tradition of
Mary Magdalene that
is the divine feminine,
the partner of Jesus,
is very alive around here.
This tradition
sees Mary Magdalene
as an initiate who was, in
fact, the successor of Jesus
after his death.
>> Her ascension teachings
became hugely influential
to the Cathars and others
on the Gnostic trail.
She was the one that
possessed those codes.
possessed this knowledge.
And it's through her
lineage that all of us
ultimately are given sort of
a golden string, if you will,
that can take us directly back
to Jesus and his ascension
teachings.
>> And so the Grail
story was exactly that.
It was the male going
out into the woods,
the place of the unknown.
That's the labyrinth.
And everyone and everything
he meets on the way
allows him to learn
something about himself
and about nature and
life and its purpose.
So the Grail is the
finding of the soul,
of that higher consciousness,
the meaning and purpose
of life.
And it would mean the masculine
and feminine coming together.
It was a story that
ignited all of Europe,
you might say, at that time.
And the Grail is still
a sacred symbol today,
because we are
still missing that.
>> What's relevant for our
time is precisely this gnosis
or deeper experience of oneness.
It's realizing your
divinity as a human being.
And the religious
institutions, they
regard themselves as
the intermediaries
between humans and Heaven.
But they can't
necessarily provide
the kind of deep meaning that
we're talking about here,
because that's something which
is personal and experiential.
And I think that's what
people are looking for.
They're looking for
direct experience.
They're not looking
just for ideas.
>> That is the difference.
In our ancient traditions, we
could experience who we are.
And if we did experience that,
we knew there is no death.
We knew that life is continuous,
that consciousness continues.
We also know we're
divine and that we
have evolved to be
co-creative with the universe.
>> How can we have
faith if we don't know?
How do we have faith in Heaven?
How do we have faith in the
lords of light, the divine ones
that are here to guide us?
How do we have faith in that
when people are channeling.
Are they delusional, or are they
in alignment with the truth?
People say, I need to
experience for myself.
I need to know for myself.
You have to knock and
the door shall be open.
Seek and we shall find.
We have to go out
on a vision quest.
>> I am Ravi Ravindra,
born in India.
When I was only
about 18 years old,
suddenly something is
saying to me, Ravi,
you don't know
why you were born.
Do you realize that you
didn't create yourself?
And somehow, this
resonated so deeply in me
that I just wanted to find
some understanding of what
the great sages have said.
What has created me or
created the universe, and why
am I here?
What's the purpose
of my existence?
And the main call in
the spiritual teachings
is really a radical
transformation
of the whole of
my being so that I
can come closer and closer to
the level of Krishna, Buddha,
Christ, God.
For example, if you go to one
of the non-canonical gospels,
gospel of Thomas, kingdom of God
is within you and without you.
If you would know God,
you must know yourself.
Therefore, in every
serious teaching,
there is a great deal of
emphasis on self-inquiry.
For example, in the Yoga
Sutras or in the Bhagavad Gita,
the word that is used
in Sanskrit, svadhyaya,
self-study.
That's almost one of
the practices of yoga,
to search for why the
universe has been created,
why I have been created.
What will happen when I die?
Is that the end of
everything in me?
See, according to all
the religious teachings,
death of the body is not
the death of the person,
as if the person is
something in the body,
but not wholly the body.
Then one wonders, what
happens when the body dies?
Is there something that does not
die, something that is eternal?
>> Since the mid-20th century,
spiritualists have begun
to focus on the
near-death experience.
More and more, we're
hearing of this experience
where people are
dying for a time,
they're traveling to a
higher frequency realm,
they're engaging
with loved ones who
have already deceased
or angelic-type beings.
They're returning to
their body, and they're
coming back to life.
This experience has been
reported by millions of people.
And it's so
important, because it
validates the existence
of a spiritual reality
beyond our world.
The near-death
experience is helping
us to prove that we continue
to exist into the afterlife,
that we go on and on and on.
>> Classically as an example,
let's say your heart stops.
Then everything flatlines.
Your brain activity stops.
And so it's what
happens or what is
reported to happen during that
period of unconsciousness.
And if you take the
normal neurophysiological
understanding of the
brain and consciousness,
then no experience
should happen at all.
It should be absolutely blank.
And yet it does
happen, which suggests
that there is something more
to the brain-consciousness
relationship than is currently
understood by neuroscience.
>> But for years,
anyone who had a vision,
it was called a hallucination.
It was even listed as that.
This has always been, if
we haven't experienced it,
we have no idea.
We can't imagine.
But when we're there, we know
that consciousness is eternal,
and that we are born into
many lives in matter.
I mean, what a miracle
death is, that whatever
we identify as self steps out of
the body and is then in spirit.
And I think also today, many
people, as I and my husband
did too, experience the
consciousness of someone
we love after the
death of that person.
And we did experience our son's
consciousness in detailed ways
for long periods of time.
He wanted us to remember
that death is not the end.
>> So we can have faith that
there is a good place for us.
If you've died and come back,
you have no fear of dying.
You have no fear
of these things,
because this world
is only an illusion.
It is a school ground for us
to learn the mastery of love.
>> This is so important, because
if more and more people can
eliminate the fear of death and
have that true understanding
that our existence on Earth
is temporary and that we have
a more permanent or eternal
existence in the afterlife,
and we eliminate
the fear of death,
that completely
transforms our world.
>> That is also one way
of realizing how little we
actually know.
Any great sage will
say, more they know,
more they realize
how little they know.
So I need to have
kind of an open mind
that I could learn something
that may surprise me.
>> Today, one of the leading
philosophies in our world is
also one of what I think of as
the darkest philosophies ever
conceived, and this
is called materialism.
Materialists believe
that you and I are just
matter, that we are
just energy and motion.
We are just molecules,
that there is nothing
spiritual dwelling within
or animating our bodies.
>> If it's true that the
brain produces consciousness
and consciousness is entirely
localized, then telepathy,
survival of death, experience
of other dimensions,
that just can't happen.
And so what these
people come up against
is what I call impossible facts.
And this is really the crunch.
If something has
happened, it's happened.
And your theory needs to address
and explain what's happened
rather than explain it away.
>> The ancient wisdom tradition
says that the soul manifests
the body as a vehicle for
incarnation, for exploration,
to work out spiritual
goals, or for karma.
But ultimately, the
ancients believed
that our soul is the
animating force that
manifests our physical body
on this physical plane.
And this is what today's
culture has to remember.
>> To a large extent, we
exist in a spiritual vacuum.
And what it goes
back to, I think,
is the denial of a transcendent
reality, the denial
of a divine dimension and the
spiritual dimension to life,
which began to gather
pace in the 18th century
and continued in
the 19th century
when Nietzsche said "God is
dead," and a lot of people
seemed to agree with him.
>> So science was from
the get-go in the West
extraordinarily limited.
And it wasn't, of course,
until the last century
with the development
of quantum physics
that it came full circle.
And we finally
now have a science
that is becoming
worthy of the universe.
And it's very
interesting to realize
that the mystics talk
about the quantum field
as well, except
they call it spirit.
[LAUGHS] And the
physicists will say,
the quantum field
is a vast ocean
of light and consciousness,
and it records everything
that happens.
And the mystics would
add, yes, it is infinite.
Everything that we do
is recorded in spirit,
and it is a vast ocean
of consciousness,
and they would add
of love and light.
So it's very similar.
What the mystic has
experienced is now
being identified by
the quantum physicist.
>> Max Planck gave an
interview to "The Observer"
in 1931 in which he
made a famous remark,
that he regarded
consciousness as fundamental,
and that the mind is the
matrix of all matter.
And so what this
does is this puts him
in the category of
people who believe
that the mind in a
sense comes first,
and the mind is primary
as a shaping force.
>> As spiritual beings, we
have to connect with our base
reality, with our true reality
which exists beyond this realm.
Call it the Kingdom of Heaven.
Call it the Pure Land.
Beings are coming and going from
these higher frequency realms
into our world.
And we have to keep
that connection alive
and infuse this world with
the light of that realm.
>> I don't think science
actually can address these
inner questions, because science
by and large looks at phenomena
from the third person,
from the outside.
But purpose only
comes from the inside,
and it's a realization
that we come to.
So spirituality or mysticism
is the complementary of this,
because spirituality deals
with the inner, the subjective,
and at some point,
the transcendent
and then what goes beyond what
we immediately understand.
>> So spiritual mysteries
always remain occupation
of an individual who wishes
to relate with the real.
Just because the Buddha
related with the real,
doesn't mean that now
I don't have to do it.
But somehow, what has
happened-- largely,
this actually began with
the Scientific Revolution--
the emphasis there is that only
the reason can lead to truth.
And therefore, ultimately only
science can lead to truth.
Musicians can go to hell.
They don't do anything.
Poets, painters, none
of this has any truth.
Truth is only
because of science.
Whereas even the greatest
scientist will tell you--
I will quote one actually from
Pascal, a very highly regarded
scientist.
He said, "Heart has reasons
that reason does not know."
>> We have a symbolic mind and
we also have a conceptual mind.
The symbolic mind has a
poetic logic of its own.
But both are
necessary for the mind
to experience its own wholeness.
And intuition is
a great gift, you
might say that we have,
is that ability to think
with the heart, feel, intuit.
>> We talk about a divine
masculine and a divine
feminine.
These are actually aspects
of our consciousness.
The masculine and feminine
that we're speaking about
is within us.
We all have an inner male
and an inner female side.
We might think of them
as our logical side
being our masculine side and
our more intuitive, nurturing,
and spiritual side
being the feminine side.
The key thing is that when we
have both sides of ourselves,
the inner male and
the inner female
both saying yes
to the same thing,
that's when real
positive momentum occurs
and when transformation suddenly
just becomes really easy
and starts to flow.
And ultimately, what I recommend
that we want to get the male
and the female saying
yes to is to becoming
more whole, more holy, more
complete, more compassionate.
>> So everything I've been
sharing is about awakening
of consciousness.
And consciousness is the yin
and yang, mind and heart.
So we're talking about
healing this duality, the male
and the female sides of us.
We've been in a patriarchal
system, and in this time now
there's this trying to bring
fair play back to the feminine,
because we've all been wounded.
We all have a little
anger and rage within us.
So we have to heal the
inner feminine within us,
the inner feminine
and find balance,
because we all had
made our mistakes.
And so if we embrace the
Hawaiian term ho'oponopono--
I'm sorry, please forgive
me, I love you, thank you--
you do it for those
around you, not as
if you're trying to heal them.
But you're healing them
that's inside of you,
because their woundedness is
your woundedness, because we
are all wounded that way.
I'm sorry, please forgive
me, I love you, thank you.
You heal the wounded male,
female, child within you.
You can heal the wounded male,
female, child outside of us.
All true traditions
have this teaching.
Jesus said, "Forgive
us our trespasses
as we forgive those who
trespass against us."
Ho'oponopono.
And the Buddhists are having
chants and mantras, healing,
loving, and forgiveness.
Love and forgiveness.
We are all one.
We all have to love and forgive,
because this world will pass,
but the Heaven realms will not.
That's where we're going.
We want to bring
Heaven down here.
And so as me learn to love
and forgive ourselves,
the sacred marriage
of male-female
can take place within us.
>> Ego is a good servant
but a bad master.
If this occupies the
whole of my life,
then I'm not really attending to
why this element of the spirit
has taken his place in me.
So in every serious teaching,
there is always this call
that I need to leave my usual
ego-oriented self, which is
just occupied with me, me, me.
Power, wealth, pleasure.
Self-occupation.
So unless I can be a
little free of that,
there is no way I
can come to God.
>> So how do we incorporate some
of these concepts in our daily
life?
What are things that we can do?
Well, first and
foremost, we always
have to recognize the
power of our thoughts
and the powers of our emotions.
We have to transcend
our lower nature.
The key is to see
ourselves already having
attained our highest spiritual
functioning and our highest
spiritual abilities,
and to begin
to live from that perspective.
So the challenge then is
to go into your imagination
and think, OK.
When I'm at this
higher frequency,
I will be maybe eating different
foods, reading different books,
meditating more perhaps.
I will be traveling
to certain places.
We need to get really
specific and come up
with a to-do list of 20,
25, 30 different, new things
that you'll enjoy doing
mentally, physically,
spiritually, and
emotionally when you're
at that higher frequency.
Then the next step is to
start doing those things.
And automatically,
your belief will
change because you are
changing what you're doing.
If you want to know what
you believe about anything,
look what you're doing.
>> We have no idea
what we're capable of.
How do we operate this
incredible beingness
that we're born in?
Certainly, the ancients used
dance, music, isolation,
fasting, long meditation.
I think those are ways.
And certainly, sacred plants,
but used in a very sacred way.
Many Indigenous people
knew our potential
to be in two places at once.
We hear that.
We don't believe it.
But there were many, many
things that we are told
from these ancient cultures.
Maybe they're true.
I think that we are
pretty powerful.
If we can go within with
the intention of what
we want to achieve,
we can get pretty far.
And we can get even farther
if we work together on it.
>> Spiritual practice is central
to all spiritual traditions.
There are prayers, exercises
with formulas, meditation
practices and
breathing practices.
And it requires will
to persist in doing
these exercises every day.
It's easier to stay in bed.
>> The body is meant to be
the instrument to assist
the evolution of the soul.
Or sometimes I use
another expression.
This is actually from St. Paul.
Body is the temple
of the spirit.
One can get so occupied
with the temple
that one is not paying
attention to the spirit that
might descend.
On the other hand, there is no
reason to be against the temple
if the temple is right,
quiet, et cetera,
so the spirit can
actually descend.
Truth is something
that has to be lived.
>> So we're always
looking for our roots.
But we don't want to be
defined by a story that
doesn't serve our true self.
And so Toltec wisdom
has been passed down.
There have been very
secret lineages.
I met Don Miguel Ruiz,
and I saw his writings
about the Four Agreements.
And these four agreements,
simple as they are,
are very difficult for
people to practice.
The first agreement is to be
impeccable with your word,
because your word
makes manifest.
So we speak our reality.
It is like abracadabra.
I speak it into manifestation.
It all begins with the power
being impeccable with our word,
that we don't speak in a way
that sabotages our reality,
that sabotages those around us.
So this also connects to what
I call the four attributes
of the spiritual warrior that
comes from Toltec wisdom,
and that is it begins with
the power of prayerful intent.
The second agreement is
don't take things personal,
because people begin to--
they're in their own healing
process, their own growth
process.
Don't take it personal,
because people
are projecting their shadows.
And so if you take their
negative energy in personally,
you can get sabotaged by
becoming too wounded by that.
The second attribute of
the spiritual warrior
is compassion,
compassion for yourself,
compassion for others.
The third agreement is
don't make assumptions.
And sometimes you're
talking to somebody.
You can make assumptions
that they mean,
this is their intention.
But you don't really know
until you look within
and look at what's going on
and investigate for yourself
what the truth is.
So that's the third attribute
of the spiritual warrior.
Intelligence.
Use your intelligence
to understand.
What is my silent wisdom
telling me is the truth?
We have our authentic
voice within us,
and we have this rational mind
that will rationalize and lie
to us.
It's like, put that thing quiet.
Look within and sense
your inner silence.
And the fourth agreement
is do your best
and don't be
attached to results.
That brings us to
the fourth attribute
of the spiritual warrior,
and that's patience.
So when we do our best and
surrender our attachment,
because we're surrendering
to the will of Heaven,
that takes us back to the first
attribute, prayerful intent,
that we are aligned
with the will of Heaven.
All positive and good
things are coming to me.
things are here for me now.
>> This journey of
transformation has many stages.
It's the radical transformation
of the whole of my being.
In fact, it is called by
Christ as having a new birth.
You have to be born again, born
of the spirit, born from above.
So how can I become an
instrument of God's will?
That is the call.
>> I am an aficionado
of sacred art.
For over 20 years, I have been
studying the ancient belief
that art is actually a portal
or a gateway into higher realms.
I first started learning
about this in ancient Egypt
where the temple
walls were literally
considered to be alive.
In the early Christian
world, they used icons
as an open-eye meditation.
And we're taught that the icon
was literally a sacred mirror.
A part of you was actually
feeling that vibration
of transfiguration as you
were looking at the image,
because the image was considered
to be a sacred mirror,
a portal, or indeed, a gateway.
The Tibetans teach that
Padmasambhava as an avatar
can transmit the codes or
vibrations of the rainbow light
body through that image.
Modern-day artists
like Nicholas Roerich
have also shown us through
their works images that
can guide us into deep
states of meditation
and help us to connect
with our light body.
It's a very key
meditation technique
that is taught in
numerous traditions,
and one we can use today.
You can find an image
of the transfiguration
or of the rainbow
light body and remember
that this is my
true spiritual self,
and use that image as
a point of connection
between your earthly self
and your transcendent self.
>> But one of the things that
sometimes people get as if they
need to be rid of their body
and just only connect with
the spirit.
That the world can go to hell,
I will just go to a monastery
or I go to the Himalayas, and
I will meditate and become free
or liberated.
That is actually
completely contrary to most
of the spiritual teachings.
After all, if God has created
this world, this universe,
why should we be against it?
[LAUGHS] I often remind people
that we are-- each one of us
is a child of both
Heaven and Earth.
Both need to be honored.
>> The spirituality
isn't an escape hatch.
Not at all.
It's engaging fully
with the world,
but not being of the
world in the sense
that one belongs to
something larger.
Be in the world, but not of it.
>> The common denominator among
all these spiritual traditions
is that they're ultimately
talking about alchemy.
And the mission of those
on the light body path
is to perfect the Earth plane,
to raise the entire planet
into a higher state
of perfection.
That is the goal of the awakened
who are on the light body path.
It's ultimately not to
leave Earth and migrate
to another planet.
That's not ascension.
That's just moving from one
physical plane to another one.
Ascension is more a
spiritualization of our planet,
of transforming it into a
planet where light and love are
the base frequency instead of
fear as the base frequency,
as many of us
experience it today.
Golden rule says that what we
put out is what we get back.
So if we're tending to
focus our energy on fear
and negative
emotions, then that's
what the world is going
to mirror back to us.
>> One understanding of the
so-called dualism of Cathars
would be to say that they see
the world as an arena where
light and darkness are
competing in some way.
And so the spirit represents
the light and the darkness
is represented by the
prince of the world,
by evil, broadly speaking,
but also love of power,
love of money, love of
influence, love of control.
>> There is a remark of
the famous Sufi sage Rumi.
If you have not yet seen the
devil, go look in the mirror.
Because the whole external
universe in principle can be
mirrored inside us,
including the devil.
[LAUGHS]
This is important
to keep in mind,
because if everything
in the universe
can be mirrored inside
me, why not the devil?
After all, he is also
part of the universe.
Even the devil has
his proper place.
After all, the devil
is also a son of God.
He didn't create himself.
He's also created by God.
And he is, in any case,
the head examiner.
He's always testing everybody.
You can certainly
see this in the Bible
or you can see this in
the story of the Buddha.
Nobody can be
enlightened or be allowed
to come to God or to
Heaven unless they
have been tested by the devil.
What is the test?
Usually, what is it that
is driving the whole world?
More pleasure, more
wealth, more power.
Is there anybody among
my whole audience who
is not driven by these forces?
I am certainly.
I occasionally ask
myself honestly,
how many million dollars would
take me to betray something?
People need to ask
this quite genuinely,
personally to really inquire.
And then if that doesn't work,
then the other side is fear.
How can I be free of this?
>> Love heals fear, but people
speak of the word love all
the time, but they can't
heal themself by themself,
because it's wounded
as their child.
We have to recover
our inner child
so that the wisdom
of that inner child
can blossom into a
spiritual warrior.
If we make amends
for our mistakes,
take total responsibility
for what we are creating--
I'm sorry for my
mistakes, great spirit.
I'm sorry for my shortcomings.
Please show me the way.
Help me to awaken on my path.
Today, this day, show
me what I need to learn,
and that you may speak
through me as you wish,
that I may be a clear
conduit for your wisdom.
Knock, ask, you shall receive.
We have to have faith
in the higher power.
And who we were the year
before, we may have successes.
We may have had
spiritual realizations.
But we have to drop it and
start brand new fresh today.
It's time for you to wake
up, remember, and learn.
>> And I think of the
Kogi, for example.
These people in Colombia,
high in the Sierra Mountains,
they know so much about
science and the cosmos.
And they actually talk to
the masters of the universe,
they tell us.
But they say this, and
that's why I bring them up,
and that is that mind creates
the scaffolding for matter.
I think that's brilliant.
They knew that it
is consciousness
that creates matter, which we
only know with quantum physics,
that consciousness is
primary and creates matter.
And they took the
responsibility to try
to hold the world in order.
And they do the meditation and
the talking with the spirit
world to try to
keep us balanced.
But they're saying, we can't.
There's too much destruction
and too much sorrow.
And they say that we are dumbing
down the universe because
of our thoughts.
So we're not only
dangerous for ourselves.
We are destroying matter,
according to the Kogi.
>> People ask me all the time,
can we really ascend during
our time?
It's getting so dark out there.
And my answer to that
is this is the time
when we most need to have
these ascension teachings.
When you think about the
Essenes and the Cathars,
they met some of the most
darkest and oppressive forces
on the planet and were
able, indeed, to overcome.
Individuals on their own can
make an enormous difference.
If they decide
that they are going
to focus on love over
fear, focus on power
rather than disempowerment,
that has a ripple effect.
That has an exponential effect.
So if our world
continues to go darker--
and I believe it's starting
to move into the light.
As we all know, the night
is darkest just before dawn.
This is the time
now where we've got
to redouble our efforts
to control our thoughts,
to control our emotions, and
especially to keep ourselves
in the most loving
possible space,
because this is the only way
that we're going to bring
the light into our world.
And ultimately,
that will leave you
in connection with your
true divine nature.
This is the ultimate
purpose of our time.
We are being
challenged, and we have
to rise as champions
on this occasion.
>> The light shined
in the darkness,
and never shall the
darkness overcome it.
>> What we are up against now
is the result of all of these
centuries of suppression.
There are four periods
of Renaissance in Europe
in which this ancient tradition
of who we are emerged.
Each of those periods
was suppressed
and repressed violently
by the powers that be.
This is the fifth period.
It has emerged today
I think full force.
So many more people
know about it.
This period is an exciting
period with quantum physics,
with near-death experiencers,
with visionaries of all kinds.
This is the fifth Renaissance.
I can't see what
could happen to us
if we don't make it this time.
There's no way that we can
really survive on the Earth,
meaningfully for
sure, unless we allow
this awakening to take place.
It's going to take the
wholeness of the human mind
to confront it and allow
itself to be transformed.
>> I do have hope, but I have
kind of what I call conditional
hope.
Hope has to be enacted.
In other words, you have to move
in the direction of your hopes
to take the necessary
action to be
part of a movement for change.
It's not going to
happen all by itself.
We are at a critical
juncture of our evolution.
And if we go along with the
reckless advance of technology
without considering
its implications,
then I think we're on
the destructive path.
There's a very good
quote from EF Schumacher.
He said that humanity is
now "too clever to survive
without wisdom."
But I think there also
is a huge potential
for spiritual awakening.
There's an old
Chinese proverb, which
I think applies to our time.
Rather "light a candle
than curse the darkness."
>> A question that is more
and more on people's lips is,
are we living in the end times?
And in my view, I believe we are
in a version of the end times.
I believe based on my research
that the Book of Revelation
is the script that we are
following at this moment.
>> I have studied prophecy
extensively from all
traditions.
And so the Hopi people,
their prophecies
are the same as the
Maya prophecies,
are the same as the Christian
prophecies, the Buddhist
prophecy.
And so there's going to be
a great awakening coming.
They speak of this time of the
Earth as going out of balance
now, because the age
is coming to an end
as we're getting ready to
begin into a new cycle.
So they speak, and
prophecy and visions
have been had about
what can go wrong.
We can see the waters
of the ocean turn black.
What's been happening
in the last 20 years?
Oil spills.
And people speak of the
black snake, these pipelines,
and they're breaking also.
And so they speak
of this time where
the cycle's coming to an end.
Our world is going
out of balance
now because we are
living in disharmony
with the natural
order of things.
The greater cycle is
coming to a quickening.
How the future
unfolds for us depends
on how much human beings
awaken to the divine.
Also today, a lot
of the scientists
are talking about the solar
flares coming in, that we
have the Carrington Event.
Happened late 1800s.
In the past, they've
discovered that there
have been solar flares
that have hit the planet.
No problem, because
we had no technology.
But today, we are dependent on
technology or electrical grids.
That would be a
worst case scenario.
In other words, the galaxy's
pulsing waves of energy.
The more energy
comes from the sun,
the more people get activated.
There's agitation, so much
energy that people cannot
assimilate it.
We are not living
in balance with it.
So we are needing a
divine intervention.
We are needing a return
of the Maitreya Buddha.
We are needing a
return of Jesus Christ.
We are needing return
of Quetzalcoatl.
We are needing a return of
the sacred divine feminine.
The return of the divine
is coming, is already here.
We have to have faith and
know that they are here,
waiting for us to wake
up, and guiding us.
We are destined for
Heaven on Earth.
As we awaken, those of the
light are coming to help us.
But we have to help ourselves
first by doing the work.
There's a woman named Dolores
Cannon, her hypnosis subjects
in the '80s talking about this
new Earth and the volunteers,
the three waves of
volunteers who came in
to bring in a frequency of love,
forgiveness, and creativity,
and solutions to problems.
So the time of the great
awakening is coming.
Today, everybody says,
what's my mission?
What's my purpose?
What am I here for?
It is to bring love and
positive frequency no matter
what you do.
You don't have to do
something important.
The simplest things,
all we've got to do
is be present as
whole human beings
and walk the Mother Earth.
And as this time of
split comes, choosing
to go in the natural sacred way.
And so that doesn't
mean our technology
is bad, because it can
be used in a good way.
But we have to remember
to put the spirit first,
to awaken spiritually,
use it for the spiritual.
And so we are at a
very great opportunity.
As we have this
chaos upon us now.
The order is awakening
within us when
we turn away from attachment
to the outer drama
and begin to awaken to
Heaven on Earth here
and now, Heaven within me.
The power of our faith
creates miracles.
>> And this is why we have to
stick to the spiritual laws
that actually work.
The golden rule is the
number one spiritual law,
that what we put out
is what we get back.
You can call that karma.
You can call it the golden rule.
Love your neighbor as yourself.
That is quantum entanglement
in a spiritual law.
And for me, that is
the path forward.
Love with all your heart, all
your mind, and all your soul,
and love your
neighbor as yourself,
because we are
ultimately all one.
Your neighbor is your self.
So as you treat
your neighbor, you
are now setting up how you
want to be treated yourself.
So if you don't like how
the world's treating you,
change how you're
treating the world.
That's the ultimate
spiritual message.
>> And it was in Bulgaria that
a sage called Peter Deunov
appeared.
He described himself as the
prophet of a culture of love.
One of the main
formulas is the disciple
must have a heart as
pure as a crystal,
a mind as bright as the sun, a
soul as vast as the universe,
and a spirit as powerful
as God and one with God.
>> The destination may
be God or enlightenment.
But whatever I know
about God is very much
conditioned by my mind.
But truth is not
stuck in one language
or in one culture or one nation.
Wisdom, great insights are
transreligious, transcultural.
Naturally, the labels
vary, whether it
is called God or Allah or
Brahma or sometimes simply
absolute, or simply
that, because it's
difficult to label it.
All the sages have said
that they can't really
describe its real nature, that
the language is not sufficient.
So gradually, one begins to
be a little less occupied
with the destination,
more concerned
with the journey itself.
Then one sometimes have one
step forward, one step back,
or one step sideways.
But the search
becomes interesting.
>> Just have faith and trust
that greater powers are
at play.
His representatives
are here to guide us
if we listen to the silence of
our inner knowing, the higher
self.
And that wisdom is like an ocean
of bliss, of love, of light.
Many mystics have
encountered it.
And so as we turn to the
wisdom of the great teachers,
we also can know that as love.
And so it's through the power
of grace that we are liberated.
Beyond this appearance,
beyond these gods,
beyond phenomena, beyond
to the great mystery god,
I bow to thee.
I'm in ecstasy.
>> There is a very famous
remark of the Buddha.
Look within.
You are the Buddha.
Or in the Hindu tradition,
especially from the Rigveda
to Upanishads, I am Brahma.
Something deep down in me
is identically the same
as Brahma, the highest reality.
Which is why the call is to
look within rather than looking
outside, because we also need to
remember this remark of Christ.
"My kingdom is not
of this world."
Every level of the universe is
trying to evolve, to come back
to the source, to return home.
It's a little like a
drop of water separated
from the whole ocean of being.
And then miraculously,
occasionally there
is this connection.
And when it takes place, it's
not going to be my decision.
It has to be from the
other side, which is
very important to understand.
I need to become more and
more receptive for this ocean
to take over, but I cannot
demand this to take place.
I can be receptive,
welcoming, inviting.
In my judgment, that's the
whole meaning of prayer.
I can welcome God to take over.
>> At a certain point--
and this applies in all
of our spiritual paths--
there's a moment to
surrender to the process.
So to listen and be silent is
to make yourself receptive so
that teachings can come in.
People get this sense
of experience of being
not separate, of being one.
They are the one expressing
itself through the many
or through the individual.
>> It was gnosis entering that
vast consciousness and laughing
when you realize that you are
the spirits, the mountain,
everything.
We know it like we've
always known it.
We remember it.
>> What is the great
spiritual mystery?
What am I?
Why have I been created?
And any answer to that always
remains a great mystery.
We had a very famous poet in
India, Rabindranath Tagore.
So Rabindranath
Tagore wrote a poem
just 13 days before his death.
This is his poem.
"In the beginning of my
life with the first rays
of the rising sun,
I asked, who am I?
Now at the end of my life with
the last rays of the setting
sun, I ask, who am I?"
>> The Maya say in lak'ech
ala k'in [NON ENGLISH]..
I am another yourself.
We are one as a
light of the sun.
>> You are it.
[MUSIC PLAYING]